@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.  Copyright (C) 2019
@c Free Software Foundation, Inc.  See the file g-golf.texi for copying
@c conditions.


@c @defindex ei


@node Function
@subsection Function

G-Golf GI function and argument high level API.@*
The G-Golf GI function and argument high level API.


@subheading Classes

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{<function>}
@item @ref{<argument>}
@end table
@end indentedblock

@subheading Accessors and Methods

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{!info_}
@item @ref{!name}
@item @ref{!flags}
@item @ref{!n-arg}
@item @ref{!caller-owns}
@item @ref{!return-type_}
@item @ref{!type-desc}
@item @ref{!may-return-null}
@item @ref{!arguments}
@item @ref{!n-gi-arg-in}
@item @ref{!args-in}
@item @ref{!gi-args-in}
@item @ref{!n-gi-arg-out}
@item @ref{!args-out}
@item @ref{!gi-args-out}
@item @ref{!gi-arg-result}
@item @ref{!name_}
@item @ref{!closure}
@item @ref{!destroy}
@item @ref{!direction}
@item @ref{!transfert}
@item @ref{!scope}
@item @ref{!type-tag}
@item @ref{!type-desc_}
@item @ref{!forced-type}
@item @ref{!string-pointer}
@item @ref{!is-pointer?}
@item @ref{!may-be-null?}
@item @ref{!is-caller-allocate?}
@item @ref{!is-optional?}
@item @ref{!is-return-value?}
@item @ref{!is-skip?}
@item @ref{!gi-argument-in}
@item @ref{!gi-argument-out}
@item @ref{!gi-argument-field}
@item @ref{is-interface?}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@subheading Variables

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{%gi-strip-boolean-result}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@subheading Classes


@anchor{<function>}
@deftp Class <function>

Its slots are:

@indentedblock
@table @code

@item @emph{info}
#:accessor !info

@item @emph{name}
#:accessor !name

@item @emph{flags}
#:accessor !flags

@item @emph{n-arg}
#:accessor !n-arg

@item @emph{caller-owns}
#:accessor !caller-owns

@item @emph{return-type}
#:accessor !return-type

@item @emph{type-desc}
#:accessor !type-desc

@item @emph{may-return-null?}
#:accessor !may-return-null?

@item @emph{arguments}
#:accessor !arguments

@item @emph{n-gi-arg-in}
#:accessor !n-gi-arg-in

@item @emph{args-in}
#:accessor !args-in

@item @emph{gi-args-in}
#:accessor !gi-args-in

@item @emph{n-gi-arg-out}
#:accessor !n-gi-arg-out

@item @emph{args-out}
#:accessor !args-out

@item @emph{gi-args-out}
#:accessor !gi-args-out

@item @emph{gi-arg-result}
#:accessor !gi-arg-result

@end table
@end indentedblock

Instances of the @code{<function>} class are immutable (to be precise,
there are not meant to be mutated, see @ref{GOOPS Notes and
Conventions}, 'Slots are not Immutable').

@end deftp


@anchor{<argument>}
@deftp Class <argument>

Its slots are:

@indentedblock
@table @code

@item @emph{name}
#:accessor !name	@*
#:init-keyword #:name

@item @emph{closure}
#:accessor !closure

@item @emph{destroy}
#:accessor !destroy

@item @emph{direction}
#:accessor !direction	@*
#:init-keyword #:direction

@item @emph{transfert}
#:accessor !transfert

@item @emph{scope}
#:accessor !scope

@item @emph{type-tag}
#:accessor !type-tag	@*
#:init-keyword #:type-tag

@item @emph{type-desc}
#:accessor !type-desc	@*
#:init-keyword #:type-desc

@item @emph{forced-type}
#:accessor !forced-type	@*
#:init-keyword #:forced-type

@item @emph{string-pointer}
#:accessor !string-pointer

@item @emph{is-pointer?}
#:accessor !is-pointer?	@*
#:init-keyword #:is-pointer?

@item @emph{may-be-null?}
#:accessor !may-be-nul?	@*
#:init-keyword #:may-be-null?

@item @emph{is-caller-allocate?}
#:accessor !is-caller-allocate?

@item @emph{is-optional?}
#:accessor !is-optional?

@item @emph{is-return-value?}
#:accessor !is-return-value?

@item @emph{is-skip?}
#:accessor !is-skip?

@item @emph{gi-argument-in}
#:accessor !gi-argument-in	@*
#:init-value #f

@item @emph{gi-argument-out}
#:accessor !gi-argument-out	@*
#:init-value #f

@item @emph{name}
#:accessor !gi-argument-field	@*
#:init-keyword #:gi-argument-field

@end table
@end indentedblock

Instances of the @code{<argument>} class are immutable (to be precise,
there are not meant to be mutated, see @ref{GOOPS Notes and
Conventions}, 'Slots are not Immutable').

@end deftp



@subheading Accessors and Methods

Note: in this section, the @var{function} and @var{argument} arguments
are [must be] a @code{<function>} and a @code{<argumet>} instance,
respectively.


@anchor{!info_}
@anchor{!name}
@anchor{!flags}
@anchor{!n-arg}
@anchor{!caller-owns}
@anchor{!return-type_}
@anchor{!type-desc}
@anchor{!may-return-null}
@anchor{!arguments}
@anchor{!n-gi-arg-in}
@anchor{!args-in}
@anchor{!gi-args-in}
@anchor{!n-gi-arg-out}
@anchor{!args-out}
@anchor{!gi-args-out}
@anchor{!gi-arg-result}
@deffn Accessor !info function
@deffnx Accessor !name function
@deffnx Accessor !flags function
@deffnx Accessor !n-arg function
@deffnx Accessor !caller-owns function
@deffnx Accessor !return-type function
@deffnx Accessor !type-desc function
@deffnx Accessor !may-return-null function
@deffnx Accessor !arguments function
@deffnx Accessor !n-gi-arg-in function
@deffnx Accessor !args-in function
@deffnx Accessor !gi-args-in function
@deffnx Accessor !n-gi-arg-out function
@deffnx Accessor !args-out function
@deffnx Accessor !gi-args-out function
@deffnx Accessor !gi-arg-result function

Returns the content of their respective slot for @var{function}.
@end deffn


@anchor{!name_}
@anchor{!closure}
@anchor{!destroy}
@anchor{!direction}
@anchor{!transfert}
@anchor{!scope}
@anchor{!type-tag}
@anchor{!type-desc_}
@anchor{!forced-type}
@anchor{!string-pointer}
@anchor{!is-pointer?}
@anchor{!may-be-null?}
@anchor{!is-caller-allocate?}
@anchor{!is-optional?}
@anchor{!is-return-value?}
@anchor{!is-skip?}
@anchor{!gi-argument-in}
@anchor{!gi-argument-out}
@anchor{!gi-argument-field}
@deffn Accessor !name argument
@deffnx Accessor !closure argument
@deffnx Accessor !destroy argument
@deffnx Accessor !direction argument
@deffnx Accessor !transfert argument
@deffnx Accessor !scope argument
@deffnx Accessor !type-tag argument
@deffnx Accessor !type-desc argument
@deffnx Accessor !forced-type argument
@deffnx Accessor !string-pointer argument
@deffnx Accessor !is-pointer? argument
@deffnx Accessor !may-be-null? argument
@deffnx Accessor !is-caller-allocate? argument
@deffnx Accessor !is-optional? argument
@deffnx Accessor !is-return-value? argument
@deffnx Accessor !is-skip? argument
@deffnx Accessor !gi-argument-in argument
@deffnx Accessor !gi-argument-out argument
@deffnx Accessor !gi-argument-field argument

Returns the content of their respective slot for @var{argument}.
@end deffn


@anchor{is-interface?}
@deffn Method is-interface? argument

Returns #t if the @code{type-tag} slot value for @var{argument} is
@code{'interface}. Otherwise, it returns #f.
@end deffn


@subheading Variables


@anchor{%gi-strip-boolean-result}
@defvar %gi-strip-boolean-result

A list of procedure and method names that return either @code{#t} or
@code{#f}, solely to indicate that the procedure or method call was
successful or not, and at least one @code{'inout} or @code{'out}
qargument(s).

These procedures and methods, if (and only if) their name is a member of
@var{%gi-strip-boolean-result}, will see their returned valued eluded if
it is @code{#t}, otherwise, an exception will be raised@footnote{In any
other situation, but void, the returned value comes first, then in
order, if any, the 'inout and/or 'out argument(s).}.

Initially, @var{%gi-strip-boolean-result} is empty, and it is a user
responsibility to fill it appropriately, for each namespace they are
importing.

Here is a concrete example, for the @code{"Clutter"} namespace and
the @code{clutter-color-from-string} procedure:

@lisp
,use (g-golf)
(gi-import "Clutter")
(clutter-color-from-string "Blue")
@print{}
$2 = #t
$3 = (0 0 255 255)
@end lisp

And call it with an undefined color name:

@lisp
(clutter-color-from-string "Bluee")
@print{}
$4 = #f
$5 = (0 0 0 0)
@end lisp

Now, let's add this procedure name to @var{%gi-strip-boolean-result}:

@lisp
(push! 'clutter-color-from-string
       %gi-function-call-strip-boolean-result)
$6 = (clutter-color-from-string)

(clutter-color-from-string "Blue")
@print{}
$7 = (0 0 255 255)
@end lisp

And call it with an undefined color name:

@lisp
(clutter-color-from-string "Bluee")
@print{}
scm-error" "clutter-color-from-string" failed."

Entering a new prompt.  Type `,bt' for a backtrace or `,q' to continue.
@end lisp
@end defvar
