@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2018 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


@node GParamSpec
@subsection GParamSpec

G-Golf GObject GParamSpec low level API.@*
GParamSpec — Metadata for parameter specifications.


@subheading Types and Values

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{%g-param-flags}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@subheading Description

@code{GParamSpec} is an object structure that encapsulates the metadata
required to specify parameters, such as e.g. GObject properties.


@subheading Types and Values

@anchor{%g-param-flags}
@defivar <genum> %g-param-flags

An instance of @code{<gi-enum>}, who's members are the scheme
representation of the @code{GParamFlags}:

@indentedblock
@emph{type-name}: GParamFlags  @*
@emph{scm-name}: g-param-flags @*
@emph{value-set}:
@indentedblock
@table @code
@item readable
the parameter is readable

@item writable
the parameter is writable

@item readwrite
alas for readable writable

@item construct
the parameter will be set upon object construction

@item construct-only
the parameter can only be set upon object construction

@item lax-validation
upon parameter conversion, strict validation is not required

@item static-name
the string used as name when constructing the parameter is guaranteed to
remain valid and unmodified for the lifetime of the parameter. Since 2.8

@item private
internal

@item static-nick
the string used as nick when constructing the parameter is guaranteed to
remain valid and unmmodified for the lifetime of the parameter. Since 2.8

@item static-blurb
the string used as blurb when constructing the parameter is guaranteed
to remain valid and unmodified for the lifetime of the parameter. Since 2.8

@item explicit-notify
calls to @code{g_object_set_property} for this property will not
automatically result in a @samp{notify} signal being emitted: the
implementation must call @code{g_object_notify} themselves in case the
property actually changes. Since: 2.42

@item deprecated
the parameter is deprecated and will be removed in a future version. A
warning will be generated if it is used while running with
@code{G_ENABLE_DIAGNOSTIC=1}. Since 2.26

@end table
@end indentedblock
@end indentedblock
@end defivar
