@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2019 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


@c @defindex tl


@node IO Channels
@subsection IO Channels

G-Golf Glib IO Channels low level API.@*
IO Channels — portable support for using files, pipes and sockets


@subheading Procedures

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{g-io-channel-unix-new}
@item @ref{g-io-channel-ref}
@item @ref{g-io-channel-unref}
@item @ref{g-io-create-watch}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@subheading Types and Values

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{%g-io-condition}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@c @subheading Struct Hierarchy

@c @indentedblock
@c GIBaseInfo           	       		@*
@c @ @ +--- GIRegisteredTypeInfo  		@*
@c @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  +--- GIEnumInfo
@c @end indentedblock


@subheading Description

The @code{GIOChannel} data type aims to provide a portable method for
using file descriptors, pipes, and sockets, and integrating them into
the main event loop. Currently, full support is available on UNIX
platforms, support for Windows is only partially complete.


Please read the @uref{@value{UGLIB-IO-Channels}, IO Channels} section
from the Glib reference manual for a complete description.


@subheading Procedures

Note: in this section, the @var{fd}, @var{channel} and @var{condition}
arguments are [must be] respectively an integer (a @samp{valid} file
descriptor), a pointer to a @code{GIOChannel} and a list of one or more
@ref{%g-io-condition} flags.


@anchor{g-io-channel-unix-new}
@deffn Procedure g-io-channel-unix-new fd

Returns a pointer.

Creates and returns a pointer to a new @code{GIOChannel} for @var{fd}
(file descriptor). On UNIX systems this works for plain files, pipes,
and sockets.

The newly created @code{GIOChannel} has a reference count of 1.

The default encoding for @code{GIOChannel} is UTF-8. If your application
is reading output from a command using via pipe, you may need to set the
encoding to the encoding of the current locale (FIXME - still missing a
binding to g_io_channel_set_encoding).
@end deffn


@anchor{g-io-channel-ref}
@deffn Procedure g-io-channel-ref channel

Returns @var{channel}.

Increments the @var{channel} reference count.
@end deffn


@anchor{g-io-channel-unref}
@deffn Procedure g-io-channel-unref channel

Returns nothing.

Decrements the @var{channel} reference count.
@end deffn


@anchor{g-io-create-watch}
@deffn Procedure g-io-create-watch channel condition

Returns a pointer.

Creates and returns a pointer to a @code{GSource} that's dispatched when
condition is met for the given @var{channel}. For example, if condition
is @code{'(in)}, the source will be dispatched when there's data available
for reading.
@end deffn


@subheading Types and Values


@anchor{%g-io-condition}
@defivar <gi-flag> %g-io-condition

An instance of @code{<gi-flag>}, who's members are the scheme
representation of the @code{GIOCondition} flags:

@indentedblock
@emph{gi-name}: GIOCondition    @*
@emph{scm-name}: gio-condition  @*
@emph{enum-set}:
@indentedblock
@table @code

@item in
There is data to read.

@item out
Data can be written (without blocking).

@item pri
There is urgent data to read.

@item err
Error condition.

@item hup
Hung up (the connection has been broken, usually for pipes and sockets).

@item nval
Invalid request. The file descriptor is not open.

@end table
@end indentedblock
@end indentedblock
@end defivar
