@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU Gbank Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.


@copying
This manual documents GNU Gbank version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright (C) 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free
Documentation License.''
@end copying


@defindex ir


@node Repository
@subsection Repository

Gbank Introspection Repository low level API. @*
GIRepository — GObject Introspection repository manager.


@subheading Description

@code{GIRepository} is used to manage repositories of
namespaces. Namespaces are represented on disk by type libraries
(.typelib files).


@subheading Object Hierarchy

@indentedblock
GObject           @*
|___ GIRepository
@end indentedblock


@subheading Procedures


@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{gbank-ir-get-default}
@item @ref{gbank-ir-get-dependencies}
@item @ref{gbank-ir-get-loaded-namespaces}
@item @ref{gbank-ir-get-n-infos}
@item @ref{gbank-ir-get-info}
@item @ref{gbank-ir-get-typelib-path}
@item @ref{gbank-ir-require}
@item @ref{gbank-ir-get-c-prefix}
@item @ref{gbank-ir-get-shared-library}
@item @ref{gbank-ir-get-version}
@item @ref{gbank-ir-find-by-gtype}
@item @ref{gbank-ir-find-by-name}
@end table
@end indentedblock


Note: in this section, the @var{repository} optional keyword argument is
[must be] a pointer to a @code{GIRepository} or @code{%null-pointer}.


@anchor{gbank-ir-get-default}
@deffn Procedure gbank-ir-get-default

Returns a pointer to the singleton process-global default
@code{GIRepository}.

GObject Introspection does not currently support multiple repositories
in a particular process, but this procedure is provided in the unlikely
eventuality that it would become possible.

All Gbank low level API procedures on GIRepository also accept an
optional @var{#:repository} keyword argument which defaults to
@code{%null-pointer}, meaning this singleton process-global default
GIRepository.
@end deffn

@anchor{gbank-ir-get-dependencies}
@deffn Procedure gbank-ir-get-dependencies namespace #:key repository

Returns a list of all (transitive) versioned dependencies for
@var{namespace}. Returned string are of the form
@code{namespace-version}.

Note: The @var{namespace} must have already been loaded using a
procedure such as @code{gbank-ir-require} before calling this procedure.
@end deffn


@anchor{gbank-ir-get-loaded-namespaces}
@deffn Procedure gbank-ir-get-loaded-namespaces #:key repository

Return the list of currently loaded namespaces.
@end deffn

@anchor{gbank-ir-get-n-infos}
@deffn Procedure gbank-ir-get-n-infos namespace #:key repository

Returns the number of metadata entries in @var{namespace}. The
@var{namespace} must have already been loaded before calling this
procedure.
@end deffn


@anchor{gbank-ir-get-info}
@deffn Procedure gbank-ir-get-info namespace index #:key repository

Returns a pointer to a particular metadata entry in the given
@var{namespace}.

The @var{namespace} must have already been loaded before calling this
procedure.  See @code{gbank-ir-get-n-infos} to find the maximum number
of entries.

@var{index} is a 0-based offset into @var{namespace} for entry.
@end deffn


@anchor{gbank-ir-get-typelib-path}
@deffn Procedure gbank-ir-get-typelib-path namespace #:key repository

Returns the full path to the .typelib file @var{namespace} was loaded
from, if loaded. If @var{namespace} is not loaded or does not exist, it
will return @code{#f}. If the typelib for @var{namespace} was included
in a shared library, it returns the special string "<builtin>".
@end deffn


@anchor{gbank-ir-require}
@deffn Procedure gbank-ir-require namespace #:key version repository

Returns a pointer a @code{GITypelib} structure, if the @code{Typelib}
file for @var{namespace} exists. Otherwise, it raises an error.

Force the @var{namespace} to be loaded if it isn't already. If
@var{namespace} is not loaded, this procedure will search for a
@code{".typelib"} file using the repository search path. In addition, a
version version of namespace may be specified. If version is not
specified, the latest will be used.
@end deffn


@anchor{gbank-ir-get-c-prefix}
@deffn Procedure gbank-ir-get-c-prefix namespace #:key repository

Returns the "C prefix", or the C level namespace associated with the
given introspection @var{namespace}. Each C symbol starts with this
prefix, as well each @code{GType} in the library.

Note: The @var{namespace} must have already been loaded using a
procedure such as @code{gbank-ir-require} before calling this procedure.
@end deffn


@anchor{gbank-ir-get-shared-library}
@deffn Procedure gbank-ir-get-shared-library namespace #:key repository

Returns a list of paths to the shared C libraries associated with the
given @var{namespace}. There may be no shared library path associated,
in which case this procedure will return an empty list.
@end deffn


@anchor{gbank-ir-get-version}
@deffn Procedure gbank-ir-get-version  namespace #:key repository

Returns the loaded version associated with the given @var{namespace}.

Note: The @var{namespace} must have already been loaded using a
procedure such as @code{gbank-ir-require} before calling this procedure.
@end deffn


@anchor{gbank-ir-find-by-gtype}
@deffn Procedure gbank-ir-find-by-gtype gtype #:key repository

Returns a pointer to a @code{GIBaseInfo} representing metadata about
@var{gtype}, or @code{#f}.

Searches all loaded namespaces for a particular @code{GType}. Note that
in order to locate the metadata, the namespace corresponding to the type
must first have been loaded. There is currently no mechanism for
determining the namespace which corresponds to an arbitrary @code{GType}
- thus, this procedure will operate most reliably when you know the
@code{GType} to originate from be from a loaded namespace.
@end deffn


@anchor{gbank-ir-find-by-name}
@deffn Procedure gbank-ir-find-by-name namespace name #:key repository

Returns a pointer to a @code{GIBaseInfo} representing metadata about
type, or @code{#f}.

Searches for a particular entry in @var{namespace}. Before calling this
function for a particular namespace, you must call
@code{gbank-ir-require} once to load the @var{namespace}, or otherwise
ensure the @var{namespace} has already been loaded.
@end deffn


@c @subheading Types and Values

