@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.


@copying
This manual documents GNU G-Golf version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright (C) 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free
Documentation License.''
@end copying


@node Abreviations
@subsection Abreviations


@subheading GObject Introspection

In the table below we list respectively the abreviation, its GObject
Introspection section, and, when applicable, its G-Golf section and the
corresponding G-Golf source code module.

@indentedblock
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .2 .2 .3
@headitem Abr. @tab GI Section @tab G-Golf Section @tab G-Golf module

@item @code{-ir-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGIRepository}, GIRepository}
@tab @ref{Repository}
@tab @code{(g-golf gi repository)}

@item @code{-ct-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGIcommontypes}, common types}
@tab n/a
@tab @code{(g-golf gi types)}

@item @code{-bi-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGIBaseInfo}, GIBaseInfo}
@tab @ref{Base Info}
@tab @code{(g-golf gi base-info)}

@item @code{-ci-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGICallableInfo}, GICallableInfo}
@tab @ref{Callable Info}
@tab @code{(g-golf gi callable-info)}

@item @code{-fi-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGIFunctionInfo}, GIFunctionInfo}

@item @code{-cb-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGICallbackInfo}, GICallbackInfo}

@item @code{-si-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGISignalInfo}, GISignalInfo}

@item @code{-vf-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGIVFuncInfo}, GIVFuncInfo}

@item @code{-rt-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGIRegisteredTypeInfo}, GIRegisteredTypeInfo}
@tab @ref{Registered Type Info}
@tab @code{(g-golf gi registered-type-info)}

@item @code{-ei-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGIEnumInfo}, GIEnumInfo}
@tab @ref{Enum Info}
@tab @code{(g-golf gi enum-info)}

@item @code{-st-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGIStructInfo}, GIStructInfo}

@item @code{-ui-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGIUnionInfo}, GIUnionInfo}

@item @code{-oi-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGIObjectInfo}, GIObjectInfo}

@item @code{-ii-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGIInterfaceInfo}, GIInterfaceInfo}

@item @code{-ai-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGIArgInfo}, GIArgInfo}
@tab @ref{Arg Info}
@tab @code{(g-golf gi arg-info)}

@item @code{-ct-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGIConstantInfo}, GIConstantInfo}

@item @code{-fi-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGIFieldInfo}, GIFieldInfo}

@item @code{-pi-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGIPropertyInfo}, GIPropertyInfo}

@item @code{-ti-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGITypeInfo}, GITypeInfo}
@c @tab @ref{Type Info}
@c @tab @code{(g-golf gi type-info)}

@item @code{-vi-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGIValueInfo}, GIValueInfo}
@tab n/a
@tab @code{(g-golf gi enum-info)}

@end multitable
@end indentedblock


@subheading GObject

In the table below we list respectively the abreviation, its GObject
section, and, when applicable, its G-Golf section and the corresponding
G-Golf source code module.

@indentedblock
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .2 .2 .3
@headitem Abr. @tab GObject Section @tab G-Golf Section @tab G-Golf module

@item @code{-go-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGOBJECT-Enum-Flags}, Enumeration and Flag Types}
@tab @c @ref{Repository}
@tab @code{(g-golf gi gobject enum-flags)}

@item
@tab @uref{@value{UGOBJECT-Type-Info}, Type Information}
@tab @c 
@tab @code{(g-golf gi gobject type-info)}

@end multitable
@end indentedblock


@subheading Glib

In the table below we list respectively the abreviation, its Glib
section, and, when applicable, its G-Golf section and the corresponding
G-Golf source code module.

@indentedblock
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .2 .2 .3
@headitem Abr. @tab Glib Section @tab G-Golf Section @tab G-Golf module

@item @code{-gl-}
@tab @uref{@value{UGLIB-Mem-Alloc}, Memory Allocation}
@tab @c @ref{Repository}
@tab @code{(g-golf gi glib mem-alloc)}

@end multitable
@end indentedblock
