@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2018 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


@node Parameters and Values
@subsection Parameters and Values

G-Golf GObject Parameters and Values low level API.@*
Parameters and Values — Standard Parameter and Value Types


@subheading Description

@code{GValue} provides an abstract container structure which can be
copied, transformed and compared while holding a value of any (derived)
type, which is registered as a GType with a GTypeValueTable in its
GTypeInfo structure. Parameter specifications for most value types can
be created as @code{GParamSpec} derived instances, to implement
e.g. @code{GObject properties} which operate on GValue containers.

Parameter names need to start with a letter (a-z or A-Z). Subsequent
characters can be letters, numbers or a '-'. All other characters are
replaced by a '-' during construction.



@subheading Procedures

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{g-value-get-float}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@c @subheading Types and Values

@c @indentedblock
@c @table @code
@c @item @ref{%g-type-fundamental-flags}
@c @end table
@c @end indentedblock


@subheading Procedures

Note: in this section, the @var{value} arguments are [must be] pointers
to a @code{GValue}.


@anchor{g-value-get-float}
@deffn Procedure g-value-get-float value

Returns a float.

Gets and returns the contents of @var{value}.
@end deffn


@c @subheading Types and Values

