@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.


@copying
This manual documents GNU G-Golf version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright (C) 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free
Documentation License.''
@end copying


@defindex oi


@node Object Info
@subsection Object Info

G-Golf Object Info low level API.@*
GIObjectInfo — Structs representing a GObject.


@subheading Description

@code{GIObjectInfo} represents a @uref{@value{UGOBJECT-GObject-struct},
GObject}. This doesn't represent a specific instance of a GObject,
instead this represent the object type (eg class).

A GObject has methods, fields, properties, signals, interfaces,
constants and virtual functions.


@subheading Struct Hierarchy

@indentedblock
GIBaseInfo           	       		@*
@ @ +--- GIRegisteredTypeInfo  		@*
@ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  +--- GIObjectInfo
@end indentedblock


@subheading Procedures

@indentedblock
@table @code
@c @item @ref{g-golf-object-import}
@item @ref{g-golf-oi-get-type-name}
@end table
@end indentedblock

Note: in this section, unless otherwise specified, the @var{info}
argument is [must be] a pointer to a @code{GIObjectInfo}.


@c @anchor{g-golf-object-import}
@c @deffn Procedure g-golf-object-import info

@c Returns a @code{<gobject>} instance.

@c Obtain the values this objecteration contains and construct ...
@c @end deffn


@anchor{g-golf-oi-get-type-name}
@deffn Procedure g-golf-oi-get-type-name info

Returns the name of the object type for @var{info}.

Obtain the name of the object class/type for @var{info}.
@end deffn


@c @subheading Types and Values

@c @indentedblock
@c @table @code
@c @item @ref{%g-golf-ai-transfer}
@c @end table
@c @end indentedblock


@c @anchor{%g-golf-ai-transfer}
@c @defvar %g-golf-ai-transfer

@c An instance of @code{<object>}, who's members are the scheme
@c representation of the @code{GITransfer}:

@c @indentedblock
@c nothing		@*
@c container	@*
@c everything
@c @end indentedblock
@c @end defvar
