@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2019 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


@node GOOPS Notes and Conventions
@subsection GOOPS Notes and Conventions

G-Golf high level API (main) objective is to make (imported) GOBject
classes and methods available using GOOPS, the Guile Object Oriented
System (@pxref{GOOPS,,, guile, The GNU Guile Reference Manual}), in a
way that is largely inspired by @uref{@value{UGG}, Guile-Gnome}.

Here are some notes and the GOOPS conventions used by G-Golf.


@subheading Slots are not Immutable

Except for virtual slots, there is currently no way to effectively
prohibit (block) a user to mutate a goops class instance (one can always
use @code{slot-set! instance slot-name value})@footnote{Actually, to be
complete, there is a way, which is to define the slot using
@code{#:class <read-only-slot>}, but (a) it is undocumented and (b), it
requires the use use of libguile to initialize the slot value, something
that I don't wan't to do in G-Golf. If you are interested by this
(undocumented) feature for your own project though, I suggest you look
for some exmples in the @uref{@value{UGG}, Guile-Gnome}, source tree,
where it is extensively used.}.

However, you will find a few places in this manual using phrase excerpts
like @samp{instances this <class> are immutable}, or @samp{this <slot>
is immutable}.  In these contexts, what is actually meant is that these
(insances or slots) are not meant to be mutated.  Doing so is not only
at your own risks, but likely to cause a crash.


@subheading Merging Generics

In G-Golf, generic functions are always merged.


@subheading Accessors Naming Convention

In G-Golf, all slots define an accessor (and no getter, no setter), the
name of which is the @code{slot-name } prefixed using @code{!}. For
example:

@example
(define-class <gtype-class> (<class>)
  (info #:accessor !info
        #:init-keyword #:info)
  ...)
@end example

The principal reasons are (not in any particular order):

@itemize

@item
It is a good idea, we think, to be able to visually (and somehow
immediately) spot and distinct accessors from the rest of the scheme
code your are looking at or working on.
@ifhtml
@* @*
@end ifhtml

@item
Accessors are exported, and with this convention, we almost certainly
avoid all @samp{name clashes} with user namespaces, that otherwise would
be extremelly frequent@footnote{Slot names tends to be extremelly
common, like @code{name}, @code{color}, @dots{} and naming their
respective accessor using the slot name would very likely provoque
numerous name clashes with user variables, procedures and methods
names.}.
@ifhtml
@* @*
@end ifhtml

@item
Users quite often want or even need to cash slot values in a closure.
By using this @code{!} prefixing convention, we leave users with the
(quite usefull) possibility to name their local variables using the
respective slot names.
@ifhtml
@* @*
@end ifhtml

@item Accessors may always be used to mutate a slot value (except for
virtual slots, for which you can @samp{block} that feature), like in
@code{(set! (!name an-actor) "Mike")}.  In scheme, it is a tradition
to signal mutability by postfixing the procedure name using the @code{!}
character.
@ifhtml
@* @*
@end ifhtml

@item
Accessors are not procedures though, there are methods, and to
effectively mutate a slot value, one must use @code{set!}.  Therefore,
prefixing makes sence (and preserves the first reason announced here,
where posfixing would break it).
@ifhtml
@* @*
@end ifhtml

@item
We should also add that we are well aware that Java also prefixes its
accessors, using a @code{.} as its prefix character, but GOOPS is
radically different from Java in its design, and therefore, we really
wanted another character.

@end itemize
