@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2019 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


@c @defindex tl


@node Doubly-Linked Lists
@subsection Doubly-Linked Lists

G-Golf Glib Doubly-Linked Lists low level API.@*
Doubly-Linked Lists — linked lists that can be iterated over in both
directions


@subheading Procedures

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{g-list-data}
@item @ref{g-list-next}
@item @ref{g-list-prev}
@item @ref{g-list-length}
@item @ref{g-list-nth-data}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@subheading Description

The @code{GList} structure and its associated functions provide a
standard doubly-linked list data structure.

Each element in the list contains a piece of data, together with
pointers which link to the previous and next elements in the list. Using
these pointers it is possible to move through the list in both
directions (unlike the singly-linked @code{GSList}, which only allows
movement through the list in the forward direction).

Please read the @uref{@value{UGLIB-GList}, Doubly-Linked-Lists}
section from the Glib reference manual for a complete description.


@subheading Procedures


@anchor{g-list-data}
@deffn Procedure g-list-data g-list

Returns a pointer.

Obtains and returns a pointer to the data in @var{g-list}, or any integer
value, in which case, it is the responsibility of the caller to apply
the appropirate type conversion procedure.
@end deffn


@anchor{g-list-next}
@deffn Procedure g-list-next g-list

Returns a pointer or #f.

Obtains and returns the next element in @var{g-list}, or #f if there are
no more elements.
@end deffn


@anchor{g-list-prev}
@deffn Procedure g-list-prev g-list

Returns a pointer or #f.

Obtains and returns the previous element in @var{g-list}, or #f if there
are no previous element.
@end deffn


@anchor{g-list-length}
@deffn Procedure g-list-length g-list

Returns an integer.

Obtains and returns the number of elements in @var{g-list}. This function
iterates over the whole list to count its elements.
@end deffn


@anchor{g-list-nth-data}
@deffn Procedure g-list-nth-data g-list n

Returns a pointer or #f.

Obtains and returns a pointer to the data of the @var{n}-th element of
@var{g-list}. This iterates over the list until it reaches the n-th
position. If @var{n} is off the end of @var{g-list}, it returns #f.
@end deffn
