@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2018 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


@defindex ai


@node Constant Info
@subsection Constant Info

G-Golf Constant Info low level API.@*
GIConstantInfo — Struct representing a constant.


@subheading Procedures

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{g-constant-info-free-value}
@item @ref{g-constant-info-get-type}
@item @ref{g-constant-info-get-value}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@subheading Struct Hierarchy

@indentedblock
GIBaseInfo           	       @*
@ @ +--- GIConstantInfo	       @*
@end indentedblock


@subheading Description

@code{GIConstantInfo} represents a constant. A constant has a type
associated which can be obtained by calling
@ref{g-constant-info-get-type} and a value, which can be obtained by
calling @ref{g-constant-info-get-value}.


@subheading Procedures

Note: in this section, the @var{info} and @var{value} arguments are
[must be] pointers to a @code{GIConstantInfo} and a @code{GIArgument},
respectively.


@anchor{g-constant-info-free-value}
@deffn Procedure g-constant-info-free-value info value

Returns nothing.

Frees the value returned from  @ref{g-constant-info-get-value}.
@end deffn


@anchor{g-constant-info-get-type}
@deffn Procedure g-constant-info-get-type info

Returns a pointer.

Obtains and returns a pointer to the @code{GITypeInfo} for
@var{info}. Free it using @ref{g-base-info-unref} when done.
@end deffn


@anchor{g-constant-info-get-value}
@deffn Procedure g-constant-info-get-value info value

Returns an integer (the size of a constant).

Obtains the value associated with @var{info} and store it in the
@var{value} parameter, which must be allocated before passing it.

The size of the constant value stored in argument will be returned. Free
the @var{value} argument with @ref{g-constant-info-free-value}.
@end deffn
