@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2020 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


@c @defindex tl


@node Events
@subsection Events

G-Golf Gdk Events low level API.@*
Events — Functions for handling events from the window system


@subheading Class

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{<gdk-event>}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@subheading Procedures, Accessors and Methods

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{!event}
@item @ref{gdk-event-get-event-type}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@subheading Types and Values

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{%gdk-event-type}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@c @subheading Struct Hierarchy

@c @indentedblock
@c GIBaseInfo           	       		@*
@c @ @ +--- GIRegisteredTypeInfo  		@*
@c @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  +--- GIEnumInfo
@c @end indentedblock


@subheading Description

This section describes functions dealing with events from the window
system.


@subheading Classes

@anchor{<gdk-event>}
@deftp Class <gdk-event>

The superclass of all Gdk type of event. Its slots are:

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @emph{event}
#:accessor !event @*
#:init-keyword #:event

A pointer to a @code{GdkEvent}.
@end table
@end indentedblock

@end deftp


@subheading Procedures, Accessors and Methods

Note: in this section, the @var{event} argument is [must be] a pointer to
a @code{GdkEvent}.


@anchor{!event}
@deffn Accessor !event inst

Returns the content of the @code{event} slot for @var{inst}.
@end deffn


@anchor{gdk-event:type}
@deffn Method gdk-event:type inst

Returns a symbol.

Obtains and returns the event type (symbol) name for @var{inst}.
@end deffn


@anchor{gdk-event-get-event-type}
@deffn Procedure gdk-event-get-event-type event

Returns the event type name.

Obtains and returns the @ref{%gdk-event-type} (symbol) name for
@var{event}.
@end deffn


@subheading Types and Values


@anchor{%gdk-event-type}
@defivar <gi-enum> %gdk-event-type

Specifies the type of the event.

Do not confuse these events with the signals that GTK+ widgets
emit. Although many of these events result in corresponding signals
being emitted, the events are often transformed or filtered along the
way.

An instance of @code{<gi-enum>}, who's members are the scheme
representation of the @code{GdkEventType}.

@indentedblock
@emph{gi-name}: GdkEventType @*
@emph{scm-name}: gdk-event-type @*
@emph{enum-set}:
@indentedblock
@table @code

@item nothing
A special code to indicate a null event.

@item delete

The window manager has requested that the toplevel window be hidden or
destroyed, usually when the user clicks on a special icon in the title
bar.

@item destroy
The window has been destroyed.

@item expose
All or part of the window has become visible and needs to be redrawn.

@item motion-notify
The pointer (usually a mouse) has moved.

@item button-press
A mouse button has been pressed.

@item 2button-press
A mouse button has been double-clicked (clicked twice within a short
period of time). Note that each click also generates a button-press
event.

@item double-button-press
Alias for 2button-press, added in 3.6.

@item 3button-press
A mouse button has been clicked 3 times in a short period of time. Note
that each click also generates a button-press event.

@item triple-button-press
Alias for 3button-press, added in 3.6.

@item button-release
A mouse button has been released.

@item key-press
A key has been pressed.

@item key-release
A key has been released.

@item enter-notify
The pointer has entered the window.

@item leave-notify
The pointer has left the window.

@item focus-change
The keyboard focus has entered or left the window.

@item configure
The size, position or stacking order of the window has changed. Note
that GTK+ discards these events for window-child windows.

@item map
The window has been mapped.

@item unmap
The window has been unmapped.

@item property-notify
A property on the window has been changed or deleted.

@item selection-clear

The application has lost ownership of a selection.

@item selection-request
Another application has requested a selection.

@item selection-notify
A selection has been received.

@item proximity-in
An input device has moved into contact with a sensing surface (e.g. a
touchscreen or graphics tablet).

@item proximity-out
An input device has moved out of contact with a sensing surface.

@item drag-enter
The mouse has entered the window while a drag is in progress.

@item drag-leave
The mouse has left the window while a drag is in progress.

@item drag-motion
The mouse has moved in the window while a drag is in progress.

@item drag-status
The status of the drag operation initiated by the window has changed.

@item drop-start
A drop operation onto the window has started.

@item drop-finished
The drop operation initiated by the window has completed.

@item client-event
A message has been received from another application.

@item visibility-notify
The window visibility status has changed.

@item scroll
The scroll wheel was turned

@item window-state
The state of a window has changed. See GdkWindowState for the possible
window states

@item setting
A setting has been modified.

@item owner-change
The owner of a selection has changed. This event type was added in 2.6

@item grab-broken
A pointer or keyboard grab was broken. This event type was added in 2.8.

@item damage
The content of the window has been changed. This event type was added in
2.14.

@item touch-begin
A new touch event sequence has just started. This event type was added
in 3.4.

@item touch-update
A touch event sequence has been updated. This event type was added in
3.4.

@item touch-end
A touch event sequence has finished. This event type was added in 3.4.

@item touch-cancel
A touch event sequence has been canceled. This event type was added in
3.4.

@item touchpad-swipe
A touchpad swipe gesture event, the current state is determined by its
phase field. This event type was added in 3.18.

@item touchpad-pinch
A touchpad pinch gesture event, the current state is determined by its
phase field. This event type was added in 3.18.

@item pad-button-press
A tablet pad button press event. This event type was added in 3.22.

@item pad-button-release
A tablet pad button release event. This event type was added in 3.22.

@item pad-ring
A tablet pad axis event from a "ring". This event type was added in
3.22.

@item pad-strip
A tablet pad axis event from a "strip". This event type was added in
3.22.

@item pad-group-mode
A tablet pad group mode change. This event type was added in 3.22.

@item event-last
marks the end of the GdkEventType enumeration. Added in 2.18

@end table
@end indentedblock
@end indentedblock
@end defivar
