@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.


@copying
This manual documents GNU G-Golf version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright (C) 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free
Documentation License.''
@end copying


@c @defindex tl


@node Enumeration and Flag Types
@subsection Enumeration and Flag Types

G-Golf GObject Enumeration and Flag Types low level API.@*
Enumeration and Flag Types — Enumeration and flags types.


@subheading Description

The GLib type system provides fundamental types for enumeration and
flags types. (Flags types are like enumerations, but allow their values
to be combined by bitwise or). A registered enumeration or flags type
associates a name and a nickname with each allowed value. When an
enumeration or flags type is registered with the GLib type system, it
can be used as value type for object properties.


@c @subheading Struct Hierarchy

@c @indentedblock
@c GIBaseInfo           	       		@*
@c @ @ +--- GIRegisteredTypeInfo  		@*
@c @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  +--- GIEnumInfo
@c @end indentedblock


@subheading Procedures


@subheading Types and Values

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{<genum>}
@end table
@end indentedblock

@c Note: in this section, the @var{typelib} argument is [must be] a pointer
@c to a @code{GITypelib}.


@anchor{<genum>}
@deftp Class <genum>

The @code{<genum>} class is a subclass of @code{<enum>}.  Its
@code{class-slots} are:

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @emph{type-name}
@item @emph{scm-name}
@item @emph{value-set}
@end table
@end indentedblock

Use @code{(describe <genum>)} or GOOPS introspection methods for a
complete pedigree.
@end deftp
