@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2018 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


@node Generic Values
@subsection Generic Values

G-Golf GObject Generic Values low level API.@*
Generic values — A polymorphic type that can hold values of any other
type.


@subheading Procedures

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{g-value-size}
@item @ref{g-value-init}
@item @ref{g-value-unset}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@c @subheading Types and Values

@c @indentedblock
@c @table @code
@c @item @ref{%g-type-fundamental-flags}
@c @end table
@c @end indentedblock


@subheading Object Hierarchy

@indentedblock
GBoxed           	       @*
@ @ +--- GValue		       @*
@end indentedblock


@subheading Description

The @code{GValue} structure is basically a variable container that
consists of a type identifier and a specific value of that type. The
type identifier within a GValue structure always determines the type of
the associated value. To create a undefined GValue structure, simply
create a zero-filled GValue structure. To initialize the GValue, use the
@ref{g-value-init} procedure. A GValue cannot be used until it is
initialized. The basic type operations (such as freeing and copying) are
determined by the @code{GTypeValueTable} associated with the type ID
stored in the GValue.

Please read the @uref{@value{UGOBJECT-Gen-Vals}, Generic Values} section
from the GObject reference manual for a complete description.


@subheading Procedures

@c Note: in this section, the @var{value} arguments are [must be] pointers
@c to a @code{GValue}.


@anchor{g-value-size}
@deffn Procedure g-value-size

Returns an integer.

Obtains and returns the size of a @code{GValue}.
@end deffn


@anchor{g-value-init}
@deffn Procedure g-value-init g-type

Returns a pointer to a @code{GValue}.

Creates and initializes a @code{GValue} with the default value for
@var{g-type}.
@end deffn


@anchor{g-value-unset}
@deffn Procedure g-value-unset g-value

Returns nothing.

Clears the current value in @var{g-value} (if any) and @samp{unsets} the
type.  This releases all resources associated with @var{g-value}. An
unset @code{GValue} is the same as an uninitialized (zero-filled)
@code{GValue} structure.
@end deffn


@c @subheading Types and Values

