@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.


@copying
This manual documents GNU G-Golf version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright (C) 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free
Documentation License.''
@end copying


@defindex rt


@node Registered Type Info
@subsection Registered Type Info

G-Golf Registered Type Info low level API.@*
GIRegisteredTypeInfo — Struct representing a struct with a @code{GType}. 


@subheading Description

@code{GIRegisteredTypeInfo} represents an entity with a @code{GType}
associated. Could be either a @code{GIEnumInfo}, @code{GIInterfaceInfo},
@code{GIObjectInfo}, @code{GIStructInfo} or a @code{GIUnionInfo}.

A registered type info struct has a name and a type function.


@subheading Struct Hierarchy

@indentedblock
GIBaseInfo					@*
@ @ +----GIRegisteredTypeInfo			@*
@ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ +----GIEnumInfo		@*
@ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ +----GIInterfaceInfo	@*
@ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ +----GIObjectInfo		@*
@ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ +----GIStructInfo		@*
@ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ +----GIUnionInfo
@end indentedblock


@subheading Procedures

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{g-golf-rt-get-type-name}
@item @ref{g-golf-rt-get-type-init}
@item @ref{g-golf-rt-get-g-type}
@end table
@end indentedblock

Note: in this section, the @var{info} argument is [must be] a pointer to
a @code{GIRegisteredTypeInfo}.


@anchor{g-golf-rt-get-type-name}
@deffn Procedure g-golf-rt-get-type-name info

Returns the type name.

Obtain the type name of the struct within the GObject type system. This
type can be passed to g_type_name() to get a GType.
@end deffn


@anchor{g-golf-rt-get-type-init}
@deffn Procedure g-golf-rt-get-type-init info

Returns the name of the type init function.

Obtain the type init function for @var{info}. The type init function is
the function which will register the @code{GType} within the
@code{GObject} type system. Usually this is not called by langauge
bindings or applications.
@end deffn


@anchor{g-golf-rt-get-g-type}
@deffn Procedure g-golf-rt-get-g-type info

Returns the @code{GType}. FIXME when this effectively works.

Obtain the @code{GType} for this registered type or @code{G_TYPE_NONE}
which a special meaning. It means that either there is no type
information associated with this info or that the shared library which
provides the type_init function for this info cannot be called.
@end deffn


@c @subheading Types and Values


@c @indentedblock
@c @table @code
@c @ref{...}
@c @end table
@c @end indentedblock


@c @anchor{}
@c @defvar
