@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2018 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


@defindex pi


@node Property Info
@subsection Property Info

G-Golf Property Info low level API.@*
GIPropertyInfo — Struct representing a property.


@subheading Procedures

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{gi-property-g-type}
@item @ref{g-property-info-get-flags}
@item @ref{g-property-info-get-ownership-transfer}
@item @ref{g-property-info-get-type}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@subheading Struct Hierarchy

@indentedblock
GIBaseInfoInfo         	                     @*
@ @ +--- GIPropertyInfo
@end indentedblock


@subheading Description

@code{GIPropertyInfo} represents a property. A property belongs to
either a @code{GIObjectInfo} or a @code{GIInterfaceInfo}.


@subheading Procedures

Note: in this section, the @var{info} argument is [must be] a pointer to
a @code{GIPropertyInfo}.


@anchor{gi-property-g-type}
@deffn Procedure gi-property-g-type info

Returns an integer.

Obtains and returns the @code{GType} value of the property.
@end deffn


@anchor{g-property-info-get-flags}
@deffn Procedure g-property-info-get-flags info

Returns a list of @ref{%g-param-flags}.

Obtain the flags for this property @var{info}.  See @ref{GParamSpec} for
the list of possible flag values.
@end deffn


@anchor{g-property-info-get-ownership-transfer}
@deffn Procedure g-property-info-get-ownership-transfer info

Returns the ownership transfer for this property.

Obtain the ownership transfer for this property. See
@ref{%gi-transfer} for more information about transfer values.
@end deffn


@anchor{g-property-info-get-type}
@deffn Procedure g-property-infoxs-get-type info

Returns a pointer to a @code{GITypeInfo}.

Obtain the type information for this property.  The @code{GITypeInfo}
must be free'd using @code{g-base-info-unref} when done.
@end deffn
