@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2018 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


@node Type Information
@subsection Type Information

G-Golf GObject Type Information low level API.@*
Type Information — The GLib Runtime type identification and management system


@subheading Procedures

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{g-type-name}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@subheading Types and Values

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{%g-type-fundamental-flags}
@item @ref{%g-type-fundamental-types}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@subheading Object Hierarchy

@indentedblock
gpointer           	       @*
@ @ +--- GType		       @*
@end indentedblock


@subheading Description

The @code{GType API} is the foundation of the GObject system. It
provides the facilities for registering and managing all fundamental
data types, user-defined object and interface types.

Please read the @uref{@value{UGOBJECT-Type-Info}, Type Information}
section from the GObject reference manual for a complete description.


@subheading Procedures


@anchor{g-type-name}
@deffn Procedure g-type-name type

Returns a string or @code{#f}.

Get the unique name that is assigned to a type ID. Note that this
function (like all other GType API) cannot cope with invalid type
IDs. It accepts validly registered type ID, but randomized type IDs
should not be passed in and will most likely lead to a crash.
@end deffn


@subheading Types and Values


@anchor{%g-type-fundamental-flags}
@defivar <gi-enum> %g-type-fundamental-flags

Bit masks used to check or determine specific characteristics of a
fundamental type.

An instance of @code{<gi-enum>}, who's members are the scheme
representation of the @code{GTypeFundamentalFlags}:

@indentedblock
@emph{gi-name}: GTypeFundamentalFlags  @*
@emph{scm-name}: g-type-fundamental-flags  @*
@emph{enum-set}:
@indentedblock
@table @code

@item classed
Indicates a classed type

@item instantiable
Indicates an instantiable type (implies classed)

@item derivable
Indicates a flat derivable type

@item deep-derivable
Indicates a deep derivable type (implies derivable)
@end table
@end indentedblock
@end indentedblock
@end defivar


@anchor{%g-type-fundamental-types}
@defivar <gi-enum> %g-type-fundamental-types

An instance of @code{<gi-enum>}, who's members are the scheme
representation of the @code{GType} obtained from the fundamentl types
defined using @code{G_TYPE_MAKE_FUNDAMENTAL}, which starts
with @code{G_TYPE_INVALID} and ends with @code{G_TYPE_OBJECT}.

@indentedblock
@emph{gi-name}: #f@footnote{There is no corresponding @code{enum} in
GOject.  These fundamental types (in GObject) are defined using a macro,
@code{G_TYPE_MAKE_FUNDAMENTAL}, that applies bitwise arithmetic shift
given by @code{G_TYPE_FUNDAMENTAL_SHIFT} (which we also have to apply,
to get to the type ID for the fundamental number @code{x}).}
@*

@emph{scm-name}: g-type-fundamental-types @*
@emph{enum-set}:
@indentedblock
@table @code

@item invalid
An invalid GType used as error return value in some functions which
return a GType.

@item none
A fundamental type which is used as a replacement for the C void return
type.

@item interface
The fundamental type from which all interfaces are derived.

@item char
The fundamental type corresponding to gchar. It is unconditionally an
8-bit signed integer. This may or may not be the same type a the C type
"gchar".

@item uchar
The fundamental type corresponding to guchar.

@item boolean
The fundamental type corresponding to gboolean.

@item int
The fundamental type corresponding to gint.

@item uint
The fundamental type corresponding to guint.

@item long
The fundamental type corresponding to glong.

@item ulong
The fundamental type corresponding to gulong.

@item int64
The fundamental type corresponding to gint64.

@item uint64
The fundamental type corresponding to guint64.

@item enum
The fundamental type from which all enumeration types are derived.

@item flags
The fundamental type from which all flags types are derived.

@item float
The fundamental type corresponding to gfloat.

@item double
The fundamental type corresponding to gdouble.

@item string
The fundamental type corresponding to nul-terminated C strings.

@item pointer
The fundamental type corresponding to gpointer.

@item boxed
The fundamental type from which all boxed types are derived.

@item param
The fundamental type from which all @ref{GParamSpec} types are derived.

@item object
The fundamental type for @ref{GObject_}.

@end table
@end indentedblock
@end indentedblock
@end defivar
