@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.


@copying
This manual documents GNU G-Golf version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright (C) 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free
Documentation License.''
@end copying


@node API Reference
@chapter API Reference

@c G-Golf Reference Manual still is a mock-up: any help is more then
@c welcome to improve this situation, thanks!


@menu
* G-Golf::
* Support::
@end menu


@node G-Golf
@section G-Golf

@menu
* API Overview::        Overview of the G-Golf API.

@subheading GIRepository

* Repository::            GObject Introspection repository manager.
* Base Info::             Base struct for all GITypelib structs.
* Callable Info::	  Struct representing a callable.
* Registered Type Info::  Struct representing a struct with a GType.
* Enum Info::		  Structs representing an enumeration and its values.
* Arg Info::		  Struct representing an argument.

@subheading GITypelib

* Typelib::		  Layout and accessors for typelib.
@end menu

@include api-overview.texi

@include api-repository.texi
@include api-base-info.texi
@include api-callable-info.texi
@include api-registered-type-info.texi
@include api-enum-info.texi
@include api-arg-info.texi

@include api-typelib.texi


@node Support
@section Support

G-Golf uses a series of support modules, each documented in the following
subsections. You may either import them all, like this
@code{(use-modules (g-golf support))}, or individually, such as
@code{(use-modules (g-golf support modules))}, @code{(use-modules (g-golf
support goops))}, ...


@menu
* Modules::
* Goops::
* G-export::
* Utils::
* Enum::
@end menu


@include api-support-modules.texi


@node Goops
@subsection Goops

@node G-export
@subsection G-export

@node Utils
@subsection Utils

@node Enum
@subsection Enum


@anchor{<enum>}
@deffn Class <enum>


@end deffn

